(soft ambient music)
There's no shortage of criticism
about the damaging effects several millennia
of patriarchal control has had on the planet its people.
But if we look deeper, can we see
a larger portrait of evolution?
Lucia Rene, author of Unplugging the Patriarchy,
is telling us that these cycles do not occur
by happenstance, that in fact,
there was an agreement on a collective spiritual level
that would allow the masculine to take the lead
and learn the lessons embodied within that experience.
Lucia, this is the book you've written.
Unplugging the Patriarch is a wonderful...
Almost from an adventure point of view,
it has that kind of Celestine Prophecy
Da Vinci Code feeling to it,
except of a very different theme.
It goes into more of the mystical realms.
From everything I understand,
this is more or less a direct reflection of your life,
which you have synthesized, collapsed time,
and so forth, and added a little bit of historical context
to this and that, to make a story out of.
But let's go to your own origins
in terms of the mystical aspect of yourself,
because you're just coming out of the closet,
and it takes a lot of courage to do this.
And you had 17 years, it sounds, of very profound training
under a mystical teacher, or guide.
Can you tell us about that?
Let's just start with that part,
'cause that most impacts your story.
Well, it most impacts my life
and my multiple lives, because this teacher
was so extraordinary.
We've been together in many lives
and it was very brilliant.
So, he had a number of students,
and I think there were about 75 that stayed
and completed their training with him.
He was a mystical teacher.
He was enlightened, you know.
He was the real deal, a living Buddha.
But he was also a mystic,
which made him very interesting
because he could explain things technically to you.
And because I had been trained as a mystic
in other lives, in Atlantis and ancient Egypt,
I was riveted, listening to these technical explanations.
Yes, the resonance was very powerful for you,
which really made you stick through a lot of stuff.
It was definitely straining.
It wasn't an easy path for you.
No, he was a very classical teacher,
sort of the Zen master.
So it was more like a military sergeant,
being in boot camp for 17 years.
So once your ego flared up, you were cut down to size
and finally you learned to take that knife in
through your heart and just open up and say,
"Okay, another level of ego being pared away."
So, a lot of people left for that reason.
But everything that I do is for my teacher and his lineage.
They've stood by me for hundreds of lifetimes
so everything I do is for that.
One of the things,
it was somewhere toward the latter part of the book,
that jumped out at me,
and at first, I took exception to it.
As a woman, I took exception to it,
and then I realized,
"Just relax and take this in and think about it."
And it was the same teacher you're talking about
had said, "Why do you think it is
"that there are so few enlightened women?"
And I thought that was interesting.
I thought it was interesting that the person teaching you
was a man, that was teaching about--
Really, that was the beginning of your understanding
of the need to disassemble the patriarchy,
but it was coming from a man.
And so he went on to explain to you
his impression or his understandings
of why women, so few had reached a state of enlightenment,
in his definition of what enlightenment is.
I think it was the definition.
That's where my mind and such was getting into it
about, well, what is enlightenment anyway?
But going from that perspective, what was he saying?
Well interestingly, at one point he told a small group
of women, "If I had incarnated as a woman
"you wouldn't have listened to me." (laughs)
(laughs) Probably true.
There would have been competition.
So, yes it was odd.
I was a complete novice in terms
of my feminist education until I met him in my early 30s
and he was the one that really opened my eyes
and caused me to start reading.
And I began reading about art history
and the matrilinear age, everything I could get my hands on
of beautiful women who have gone before us
and gotten the vote and all of these wonderful things.
But he, as an enlightened teacher, he said,
"When an enlightened master incarnates in a world,
"they stop and they look around themselves
"and they say, 'What is the greatest need at this time?'"
And for him the greatest need was the enlightenment
of women.
He felt that there was a terrific imbalance
on the planet between the masculine and feminine energies
and that all other imbalances, the wars,
the poverty, the rape, the abuse, the oppression,
all of it is predicated on the imbalance
between the masculine and the feminine.
And that until that is righted, we will never be able
to move forward into this golden age
that we're all anticipating.
So he put tremendous focus on his women students.
He separated us from the men.
He encouraged us to stand on our own.
He wanted us to go into computer science,
not only to strengthen the mind,
the awareness field, but also to learn how to make money,
to take the patriarchy on, and to be able
to work on Wall Street with very powerful stockbrokers,
and for a woman to be able to stand
and not be affected by that.
So it was terrific training, very difficult.
Most of us were really artists
and had no interest at all in making money.
But if you wanted to continue to study with him,
which was my life's desire, then you had
to go with the program, as it were.
In the earthly world.
Yeah
Yes.
Just to backtrack to where we were
a moment ago, with the question I was asking
about why the rationale--
His explanation for why women didn't take on
the process of enlightenment to the same degree
that men had throughout more modern history.
Can you explain what he had to say about that?
Because they had been excluded.
So, you know, I was ordained by him as a Buddhist monk.
And in particular he said--
He put on the scroll he gave us, for his women,
"You're ordained as a Buddhist monk.
"I want you to know that I didn't ordain you
"as a Buddhist nun
"because the nuns have been denied
"the full esoteric teachings,
"and I have denied you nothing.
"So, you're a Buddhist monk."
So, down through history, women have been excluded
from everything, education, the ability to make money,
to even handle money, to have spiritual educations
and so on.
And of course, 6,000 years ago we had a matrilinear age
where women held the reigns of power.
And I think the most interesting realization we came to
that's included in Unplugging the Patriarchy,
is that women actually made a collective decision,
a very deep decision, to hand off the reigns of power
so men could learn about power,
so that women could learn about
men learning about power, including abuse of power.
And this age, the patriarchal age,
has been humanity learning lessons in power.
And it's simply time for women to take back those reigns.
Not in an oppressive way, but in a very egalitarian way.
Power comes through the heart.
It's not of us, it comes through us.
And one of the things,
as I recall, that he was also speaking to you about,
is to begin recognizing the genuine traits
that do exist in men and women,
and not in the stereotypical ways
of what we've known in the past.
And one of the areas he talks about to you
is about the emotions.
Can you go ahead and expand on that?
Yes, well one night he put a man and a woman
up in front of the student body and he said,
"I want you to psychically scan the woman
"and the man and tell me what their spiritual essence is.
"Not the conditioning that you see on the outer,
"but what is the essence?"
And when we did that exercise at the end of the day,
we said, "A woman's spiritual essence is power
"and a man's spiritual essence is the heart."
It's the exact opposite. (laughs)
Upside-down.
The reverse world.
The reverse of what is intrinsically natural to us.
So a woman, I think partially because she has
the ability to give birth--
And this is not something that we know here.
It's just held in the body.
It's a complete miracle.
But women know how to pull energy up
from the depths of Mother Earth
and how to hold it in the lower chakras,
our energy centers, the power chakras,
and then to pull it up through the heart
and wield power through the heart,
facilitate power through the heart
in a balanced way.
And take a very unique kind
of responsibility along with that.
Exactly.
So we are...
Actually, his thought was that women
are less emotional than men.
Women have been taught in this age
that they are overly emotional,
and of course men are taught to shut down
the emotions.
When just the opposite is true,
because a woman intrinsically is power.
She's really very detached.
I mean, we feel, we feel for the desecration of the Earth.
We feel everything.
We want to nurture.
We want to help.
But that's only one aspect of the feminine.
And feeling is different than emotions.
And maybe you can talk about that a little bit,
because it's really...
Yes.
I'm not speaking about the emotional body.
I mean, we all have an emotional body,
which is rather like a harp that gets played.
But if the egoic structure has been cleared,
then the emotions,
whatever is coming at us in terms of language
or action, it just passes through the harp
and it vibrates, right?
And it points us to something...
But, power, or feeling is quite different.
It's mostly aligned with the heart
and so there's a sense of balance, of unconditional love.
The heart actually has the strength of the lower chakras,
so it's the mother lion defending her cubs.
It has the wisdom of the upper chakras,
the more esoteric chakras, of speaking the truth
and seeing into other dimensions and ascending.
All of these things have been off-limits to women
in the patriarchal age.
You can't go here.
You can't become a living Buddha.
You can't go down and become powerful
or else you're a bitch.
You're really confined here,
and not in the expansive, universal heart
of pure feeling,
but of this contorted inside-out upside-down
limited, finite heart.
With the ideal to be of service.
Of service.
But not in the broader sense,
the universal sense of the term.
In a more personal sense, to be of service.
To always obey authority.
Exactly.
It's the Virgin Mary in the Christian tradition.
And you write at length
about the Christian tradition,
and particularly Roman Catholicism, in the book.
This is one of the rings of power that you speak of
and again, if people want to really get a better glimpse
at the whole story, they need to read the book
all the way through.
But, let's focus a little bit on what you learned
in your journey, about a couple of different things
that have been considered the centers
of the patriarchy of the last few thousand years.
And one of them resides in the city of London,
and I found this interesting.
And when this was being viewed on an energetic level,
and this is a lot of what your work was.
First of all, you emerged as a warrior type,
of the various archetypes in your lineage.
You emerged as a warrior, a female warrior, for this time.
And you were also taught to view energies,
and to view deeply into energies.
One of the energies in the book that you expanded on
was this energy that appeared
as a giant squid,
partly organic, partly mechanical in nature,
in and around, under, the city of London.
Go ahead and talk about that, if you would,
and any of the implications.
(Lucia laughs)
I know, that's a discourse that would take hours,
but please, I'd like you to talk about it.
Well, let's see.
I think it's important to preface talking about it,
but saying, my assignment that I was given,
my dharmic assignment, was to research
what's happening in the world
and then to look beneath the scenes,
behind the scenes, and to identify what the underlying
mystical structure was.
And so I did six months of research.
I wasn't very pleased with the assignment.
I sometimes thought I was going crazy
or had lots of doubt, and certainly lots of fear
that came up, but I began to research
because I was very naive about what was going on
in the world.
I wasn't satisfied with just doing book learning,
the left brain part.
But I would get on a plane and I would travel
to all of the places that I read about,
the World Trade Organization, and the Federal Reserve,
the World Bank, and so on, because as a mystic,
and having some psychic skill,
I wanted to steep myself in the energy there
and I would always ask for guidance.
What is really going on here
at the World Trade Organization?
And so on.
Is this just greed, or what is happening here energetically?
So the book outlines all of that.
But in the end, our perception,
the women that did this collaboration
and the energetic work of not only dismantling
the patriarchy here, in other words the buy end
that we experience to the patriarchy,
having lived in it for 5,000 years.
But to offer to be of service to dismantle
this underlying energetic structure.
It led us to London, because London is operation central
for the power elite in the world.
We basically live, we discovered, in a feudal system.
It's very subtle, and it's not well known,
but it's a feudal system nonetheless
where the masses are merely cogs and wheels
in a giant machine that serves the few.
So we went to operation central.
That was one of the last pieces of energetic work we did
in terms of unplugging things.
I like to use this term unplugging.
In fact, that's where the title of the book came from.
(Lucia laughs)
Yes.
Unplugging the Patriarchy.
So, I kept being taken down when I was in London.
We were there for seven days.
Energetically I would meditate
and I would be taken down into this other dimension
and shown something that I couldn't identify.
It was so distorted and horrific.
The energy of it was so awful.
And I kept asking, "What are you showing me?
"What am I being shown here?"
And I could see it was sort of like a machine,
but then in the end I saw that it was also organic,
which made it even more horrific.
And it really was something mysticism...
Well, psychic,
being psychic is the ability to perceive things
in other dimensions, and a mystic,
having mystically abilities, is the ability to enter
into those other dimensions and make change there.
So some very astute mystic, who is part of the global elite,
had constructed this some time ago,
some generations ago.
And it really in the end was a fear machine.
Its job was to, among other things, just lace the money
that comes through the city in London.
In the United States we assume everything revolves
around Wall Street, but really,
if you drill back into it, we go to the city in London,
where all of the banks of the world
are housed and so on.
And so the money transits through there, you know.
How do you transit a few billion dollars through
and bring a Third World country to its knees
on the other side of the planet?
And so we were told to unplug this thing,
which the whole system is run on fear.
If we're really honest about this patriarchal,
which simply means male-dominated, society,
it's run on fear.
And so if enough of us just stand up
from the patriarchal monopoly game and say,
"I don't want to play anymore.
"I unplug from the fear.
"I'm not going to let this run my life anymore,"
then the game ends, doesn't it?
You mentioned a moment ago
that there was an entity.
What you were seeing, was that there was an entity
that had placed this semi-organic semi-mechanical
fear structure, energetically this dynamic, in place.
So you perceived it as what we would term,
one of the power elite?
Once upon a time, or however many generations back?
Is that what you perceived?
Yes.
I mean, in the story there's someone
I call the man in the South Pacific.
Yes, I was going to get to that.
Why don't you go ahead and take it from here?
Well, I believe he's a real person
and he's someone that I knew in a past life,
which is why I'm pitted against him.
It's sort of, if I'm the heroine, he's the antagonist.
In this book, yes.
And so it worked out conveniently for me as a writer.
But, I think there is a real man
who is extraordinarily astute in terms of
lower occultism or mysticism, whatever you would like
to call it, the practice of the dark arts,
using energies for self-service.
And really the problem that we face in the patriarchy,
with this patriarchal elite, is not greed.
It's obsession with power.
When one is obsessed with power,
you literally have side blinders on.
I mean, you can't see for the obsession.
And so for them, it's the rush of power
that comes with this idea that I could control everything
in the world.
And I believe there is such a man,
who's playing all of the other so-called ring leaders.
They're various components of the patriarchy
and they all work together,
and in the beginning they all overlapped and intersected.
And this was, in essence, on an energetic level,
the one world government or the New World Order
that we read about now
that's becoming more and more exposed to the world.
So, very very crafty.
If you play people's egos against each other
then you can make them think they're very important
in terms of the one world government
and maybe you'll have a good position when it all
comes to be.
And so, many different factions working together.
And keep the public
from looking behind the green curtain.
This is really important,
because when we look at the manipulations
we see it more in terms of the common perceptions
of media for example, telling us,
"Well, the market's up.
"The market's down.
"Look what happened over here.
"It seems to be impacting that."
Really, that's the curtain we're looking at.
And very seldom do people stop
and try to look behind that at the larger forces.
And I think that's what has been served
by the conspiracy community.
I don't like the word conspiracy at all.
It doesn't work for me, but I'm just using it.
Just, that's what people use.
But, to begin identifying the next layer
of what might be motivating these events.
This seems to be where you get to the patriarchy,
where you get to the principles of power and greed.
But there's a layer beyond that,
and you were just talking about it.
The occult practices that even set these in motion
to begin with.
That really is an area that very few people
can glimpse.
Yes, and I think getting feedback from the book,
which I wrote very reluctantly, because as a mystic,
you don't necessarily want to talk about
the mystical work that you've done.
If you've done the work, it's been done.
The energetic work has been done,
and the benefit, you know...
What happens on an energetic level
will eventually filter down into the physical
and that's the work.
But I kept being told,
"No, there are people that need this information.
"This needs to be exposed."
And so I did write the book,
and now I'm getting emails from women.
Our audience is 98% women probably,
and some men who have worked to balance
the masculine and feminine within themselves,
because it is predominantly a book about female power.
But I get emails from women all over the world
saying, "This resonated.
"I was right there with you on the journey
"and you were doing the book learning
"and you wove that through the book
"and the spiritual teachings and the mysticism," and,
"I've had a few mystical experiences.
"Maybe I didn't know how to label them.
"But now the whole thing is exposed.
"It's as though you popped the hood on the patriarchy
"and showed all the cogs and wheels
"and the way they work together."
And that was the whole point of writing the book,
so that someone could do that, could read it.
Of course when you read something,
then psychically you're mapping to the information.
You're going down beneath the words
and you're feeling what is there.
And someone can feel the various components
because they're all laid out systematically
in diagrams even.
And they can feel how they resonate.
They can feel what their buy ends are.
They can feel what their triggers are,
about money, about industry, and so on.
And they can begin to work with them
in order to clear themselves,
in order to unplug themselves from this sytem
which is now coming unraveled.
Indeed.
And going back again to these particular
energetics that were set in place to begin with,
taking it onto even a more complex level
and going further back, you mentioned a while ago
in this conversation that it was the women
in your discovery, and also I think
your teacher's discovery, it was that the women themselves
had helped put this into motion so that humanity
could begin balancing out and understanding power
in its true form, rather than its abusive form.
And we needed to go through this trial by fire
as a species.
Am I correct in that?
Yes, because you see,
mysticism is the study of power.
And power has a lot of different aspects.
So when you study mysticism, and we're not speaking
about abuse of power, the negative connotation
that it has today.
We're saying power as energy, as life force,
as qi in martial arts.
So when you study power, you're studying
how to accrue power, how to avoid the loss of power,
how to reclaim it from past lives,
how to transfer it, how to transmute it.
But one part of the study of power is abuse of power.
So, the mystic has to abuse power
to learn that it is not smart,
that one spirals down into lower states of attention
if one abuses power.
It's like the child putting its hand on the stove.
It's a necessary part of growing up.
And then you learn, no, that's not advisable.
So, for women who are intrinsically mystics,
they know how to wield power.
Then what happens is that if they study
all aspects of power, they come into a place of balance,
where, as I said, they can pull the power up
and wield it through the balance of the heart
in a very egalitarian way and a very balanced way.
And yet it took the innate power
of the feminine aspect of spirit to have the strength
to be able to help facilitate
this dark period of history.
Absolutely,
because we knew that if we didn't,
not everyone would be able--
You see, the Earth is cycling up in my estimation,
so we began at, if we look at the energy centers
or the chakras, at the root,
and we were learning lessons about survival.
That's the way that chakra vibrates.
And then we moved up in the matrilinear era
and we were at the level of the second chakra,
where we learned lessons about birth and creativity.
Now we're here at the navel chakra.
For the past 5,000 years we've been learning
lessons about power, including
right now, abuse of power.
We're beginning to rise up into the level of the heart.
The Earth is cycling up in her energy.
And so, this is where the energy
will reside and vibrate, going forward.
After 2012, that's where we're headed.
So, it's a place of, as I said, unconditional love
and masculine-feminine balance
and wisdom and strength and so on.
And so women in their great knowing and strength
at the end of the matrilinear age,
they said, "Yes.
"We're willing to do this for the learning
"of all humanity, so that we can eventually rise up
"together to the level of the heart,
"and embark on this Aquarian Age."
And this is the collective unconscious.
It wasn't as though women were necessarily
given a vote at that time.
"Okay, ladies, this is how it's going to play out.
"There's a great benefit on the other side."
We are talking about the collective unconscious.
And yet, we all have incarnated--
Most all of us have incarnated as both male and female
throughout history,
although it seems in my observation,
that a being has generally tended to side
more masculine or more feminine
to learn those particular--
And also, maybe their soul in their original lineage,
whatever that may be, aligns more
with that particular principle for the work they're doing
on this Earth.
And so, in essence, if you're saying
that the masculine more aligns with the emotions,
and that the feminine more naturally aligns
with power in the authentic sense of it,
it would seem that it would be appropriate
for the women to have taken this role,
because it could have been damaging--
What I'm seeing in my mind here,
is it could have been damaging
to such a traumatic extent.
It would have taken a lot to recover
for the men being more emotional,
to be put in a similar kind of subservient role
to what has happened with the women.
Yes.
I think the conditioning for both
is absolutely brutal at this point,
and we're all being asked to throw off our conditioning.
So, women are trained to be second-class citizens
and to push your way up through that conditioning,
and stand, what I call standing in your power,
which is not standing for something
or something against something,
but standing in a place of balance and integrity,
where the whole polarity of for and against comes to rest.
When you stand like that, then you can move
the personal self out of the way
and allow the divine feminine, or the divine
which is beyond both masculine and feminine,
to come through and to dictate actions.
Of course we're for things and we're against things
and we're activists and we protest.
I'm not saying that we shouldn't do those things.
But I'm suggesting that there is a way to do that
from a place of balance and integrity,
where you're not the doer,
and therefore the action is 100 times more powerful.
And so, the male wounding as well
is extremely deep.
I've asked to go into it, to see it
so I wouldn't exclude men.
Very, very painful to have shut down the emotional body
and to have been forced into a position
where you must always be strong
and you can never allow fear.
To have such powerful emotions
that write some of the epic plays and novels
and love songs that have endured throughout history
written by men,
as a little reflection of what's going on
in the emotional body.
It's very interesting, and you can certainly see
when you put it together that way,
that with that emotional body being wounded
and the power and permission to do so,
a tremendous amount of havoc can be wrought
on the planet in response to being egoically
or emotionally wounded.
And that's what we see.
That's what we see play out in wars and so forth,
is also a male reaction to that woundedness.
Yes, this is why I feel that women
are being called to the front lines now.
Really it's up to women to stand
and to basically say--
You know, it happens on the level of consciousness.
It's not something that we have to understand here.
It's not something that we have to communicate
with each other verbally about,
although it's helpful if we do.
But women are being asked to stand in their power
and to collaborate.
And collaboration is a little bit different
than cooperation.
We learned to do that during the feminist movement.
I'll give you this, and you give me that,
and then we can live in peace and harmony
and get things done.
But collaboration is where we all say,
"I'll move my personal self aside
"and I'll allow the divine feminine to manifest
"and in her wisdom we'll go forward as one.
"One heart and one mind."
Yeah.
Yes.
I understand.
This requires some really practical deconstruction
as well.
And, this can't be done with force.
Force is what got us here to begin with,
in this situation.
But the deconstruction has to happen nonetheless.
I think what you were saying a moment ago
answers to that, in that it has to come from becoming
a sovereign being, standing in one's own truth,
opening to the larger truth
and the intrinsic power within
to begin flowing through, for men and women.
But we have to focus more on women now
because we have to wake up.
We have to unplug from, as you say, the patriarchy.
But,
let's talk about some of the practical implications
because one of them is for example the church.
The church has been a really devastating force
in keeping the feminine silenced and blind
for a very long time now.
Let's talk about that, because part of the travels
took your group to Rome,
and go ahead on that one a bit.
Well, I was shocked when I read the history
of the Catholic church.
I have nothing against the Catholic church
or against religion in general.
I think religion serves a purpose for many people,
to have rules about what is right and what is wrong.
If that's needed at a certain level of evolution,
that's perfectly fine.
But then at some point, we grow beyond that.
We're gnostic in knowledge and knowledge is within.
I think there was...
Well, when I read the history of the Catholic church
it was more like the history of a king,
you know, going out and doing battle
to gain lands and wealth.
And so it was very eye-opening to me.
And it comes back to what I was talking about before,
of women just being here.
It's the Virgin Mary.
That's the archetype we've been left with,
which is very limiting.
Over time,
and maybe not even a long period of time,
because we're watching things...
We're watching day to day, the Catholic church
is being revealed and even the Pope has had to apologize
for the behavior of the priests.
We will find out over the next few years
how this is going to play out in terms of the power
that the church wields.
I mean, again, we're talking about these layers.
We're looking at the priests that perform services
throughout the week and on Sundays
that we all plug in to for our own need
to uphold some moral vision inside ourselves,
versus the power, the politics, the money,
and then going into the deep, deep, deeply rooted
mystical roots of what put that in place to begin with.
And that's a whole other subject.
And what did you find on that level
when you were looking at it from the mystical end?
Well, I definitely think it's one of the components.
We identified nine primary problematic components.
Let's see if I can name them.
Government and military and industry,
in terms of consumerism.
Banking, one of the big ones, with money
that controls everything.
World Bank, which is really a ruse
for a control of natural resources on the planet.
Media, basically a propaganda machine at this point.
Art, in terms of PR, that helps out
with the propaganda machine.
Not art intrinsically, but the way that art is being used
to help facilitate that.
And religion is one of them, because it caps spirituality.
It teaches us that we can't have a direct connection
with the divine.
Indeed, we are the divine in manifest form.
And finally, royalty, which is not so apparent
here in the United States,
but is better understood in Europe.
And so this expresses itself through the royal families
of Europe who have formed this little-known group
called the Bilderbergers.
So, yeah.
They're all problematic in different ways.
Their energies are problematic.
But religion has really been--
It's sort of up here.
You know, you have government,
and government creates a shape, a sort of lid, on society
that says you function within this playing field, right?
And basically it's like a prison camp
and the only reason that we don't perceive it that way
is that we've never been beyond the barb wire fence.
Well, those rules are not for those
who create the rules.
Those are only for the people inside the prison camp.
Indeed, indeed.
But then you know, the overarching structure
that is put in place, that says, "No.
"You cannot go there," is religion.
That's the one that says, you know,
"You can't ascend up.
"You can't ascend through your crown chakra
"and connect with the divinity
"at the center of the universe."
And you can't go down, because the lower chakras
are off-limits to the core of the earth,
because eventually that forms this beautiful transit,
all the way.
It's like this fountain of light
that comes up through the crown chakra.
It comes down in the pools
and comes back up through the root chakra.
All of this I go into in the book.
So this is what we found.
And we actually visited churches
and looked at the energetic configuration
and how the domes had purposely been constructed
in order to hold, in order to take you up to a certain place
and give you this sort of buzz
and convince you this is religion.
This is spirituality.
But the moment your crown chakra tries,
the energy tries, to go up and ascend, no no no,
because there's a dome there to cap it off.
Interesting.
Yes, of course.
What about industry?
Because this is the area that hits a lot of women,
i.e. consumerism.
We seem to sublimate a lot of our frustrations
or angers or depression or desire or anything
into consumerism.
What did you learn in this part of the journey?
You and your group learned personally?
It's a sedative isn't it?
And it's a way we medicate ourselves
to make ourselves feel better.
But we've been so propagandized with this idea
that satisfaction, the fulfillment of desire
is by buying things.
If I can only have the right house,
the right car, the right clothes,
the right shade of lipstick,
then truly I'll be happy.
But you know, when I went to the World Trade Organization
and I sat there and I asked, "What is happening?"
the phrase came into my mind
that Margaret Thatcher coined,
which was TINA.
"There is no alternative to globalization," right?
And I said, "Is that true?
"Really?"
We've been growing our own food
and making our own clothes for a long time.
Is that true?
And of course the answer is no.
So there's a wave of energy that goes out from that building
that is very tiring, that basically says, "Consume.
"Consume.
"There is no alternative."
And then there's a wave that comes back,
the second ripple that the mystic can see,
which says, "Let's pull all the money.
"Let's pull all the money."
It's pure unadulterated greed that comes in.
And the World Trade Organization
is the structure, the organization,
which allows that to happen through industry.
Since the book came out,
you have started--
You've been speaking for a long time,
helping counsel and work with individuals,
but you have started working with larger groups of women.
And you're keeping it to women at this time
because...
You explain to us,
why your work is specifically focusing on women now.
Well, I think both men and women have very, very important
work to do at this time,
but I think women are on the front lines, as I said.
And that it's necessary on an energetic level,
because my gift is that I can see as a mystic
these large overarching structures,
the structures of the patriarchy
and now the structures of where we're headed
between now and 2012.
And so what I'm seeing, as I part the mystical veil,
so to speak, is that women are being asked
to stand in their power and to collaborate
and that it is creating--
When a woman stands, she creates a beam of light.
It's a strand of luminosity.
So each woman is different.
Each is unique.
Each is a different archetype, if you will.
And she stands on the Earth
and this creates a beacon of light.
And as women collaborate, those beacons of light connect.
And so this is the one heart, one mind,
that's coming into place, that we've been hearing about.
It's a beautiful network of rarefied energy
that will allow us to move as humanity
like a flock of birds.
A flock of birds just knows north.
They know what is correct,
and they all move with one mind there.
So the work of women is to really stand and collaborate
because when that network of light
becomes strong enough, and we don't know
how many women that will take.
We don't know how long it will take.
We have two and a half years
and I have every confidence that it will happen
and generally consciousness happens
in an eleventh hour way, doesn't it?
Mmhmm, it does.
Eleventh hour and 59th minute, sometimes.
(laughter)
Which I have a sense, may be that way, but that's okay.
Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
Well, we're letting go of time
so there really is no time as things speed up.
And so I think we have all the time we need.
But it will begin.
That network of light will begin to vibrate
in a way that will become more and more evident
on the planet.
And eventually it will vibrate with such an intensity
that if you translated it into words,
it would say, "Enough is enough."
Mmhmm.
And again, going back to...
Even in your workshops, it's only women allowed.
And it's not to be exclusive as much,
from what I can understand, but I've noticed this myself.
When you put a man in the room,
because of the existing paradigm and structures
that have been, women oftentimes will start deferring
to whatever the man's energy is,
what he has to say and thinks.
So it's really to remove that kind of resonance,
so that the women can be free to start really
discovering what their own true feelings
and true knowledge base is.
Yes, absolutely.
And there are many wonderful female groups
that have been happening for a long time.
But I feel like that's escalating.
You know, we have calls now,
like Women on the Edge of Evolution
where there are 7,000 women.
Imagine that.
7,000 women sign up for one call on a day
and all of their attention is focused
on the evolution of women.
Women on the edge of this thing.
So, yes, it's not exclusive at all.
It's just doing what needs to be done now
to empower a group of people,
a very large group of people
who have not been experiencing their own power
for a long time.
Right,
and we will come to a time--
I mean, men have their own work to do,
of reclaiming the heart.
But unless women are willing to stand in their power
and create this crescendo of reclaiming feminine power,
men will not be able to react.
It's very important that men be given the opportunity
to react in order to balance out the masculine and feminine
within themselves.
So the kindest thing...
Many women cringe when I say I give women-only workshops,
but the kindest thing we can do for the men in our lives
if we love them and want to help them
through this transition,
is to stand in our power and collaborate
and meet with each other.
I mean, we've been meeting in groups, mixed groups,
for a long time,
and it really hasn't done the trick, has it?
And so, why don't we try something different now?
(laughs)
And yet, at the same time,
some of the women you've been dealing with,
they'll often come with trepidation for fear,
if I stand in my power I'll lose my relationship.
I'm a mother and my stability will be gone.
Talk to us about that.
Yes, it's very difficult,
very difficult for women.
The conditioning is very stringent. (sighs)
So...
I mean there's a fear factor
that women have to overcome.
A tremendous fear factor.
Because what if all these things go away?
What if the men don't like them
as they truly are?
You know, there comes a point,
and it came for us in London.
You know, you were talking about London earlier,
where we were standing there and realizing,
"My God.
"I'm a woman who is about to unplug
"from the entire patriarchal system
"and yet, I'm in a female body
"and I have to continue to survive
"in a patriarchal system, at least until the end
"of this cycle of time."
How does one do that?
But there comes a moment where you say,
"You know, if I don't do it,
"what will happen?
"If I don't do it."
It's worse, because you have to think
not only of yourself, but you have to think
of the future generations, for the planet.
Because in the next two and a half years,
women have this amazing opportunity
and that is that we can cycle the energy up
as high as we want.
All that I think is going to happen at the end of 2012
is that the energies lock in place.
And that's the foundation on which we will start
to build a new world.
So, we are definitely moving from point A to point B.
One cycle is ending and another cycle is beginning.
No question.
This is not our job.
It has nothing to do with us.
It's the work of Mother Earth in concert
with Mother Divine, who's here to help balance out
a predominantly masculine society.
But we have this unique opportunity
at this pivotal time.
And that is not only to move from point A to point B,
but to move to point C, to move to point G,
to ratchet it up to point M if we want it.
Think of it.
We can do anything.
We can dream a whole new configuration
because the energies are in flux right now.
And dream is a very important word
because we have dreamed this
and so it's up to us to dream the next level up
and the next level beyond that.
As you say, we have just felt so capped
in our potentials, in terms of what we perceive as possible.
So, the dream, dreaming together,
is really what's going to do it.
As you say, it's the collective.
It's the collective feminine essence,
the principle of authentic power.
Absolutely, because each of us participates in the
global collective consciousness
by virtue of being a conscious being, of course.
And so, each of us has the ability to make change.
Change begins here.
Change always beings here.
The most effective way to change what's happening
on the planet is to change this.
Then, it affects the global collective consciousness.
So...
Change is what's happening.
You know, the personal self is extremely challenged
right now.
But this is the end of an age.
This is what it feels like.
It feels very intense.
It feels very challenging to the personal self.
So, if we draw back to a global level,
if we draw back into the universal self,
and we remember, I chose to be here.
I chose this incarnation.
This is what we all wanted,
to experience the intensity of this time,
because humanity has its back up against the wall.
The power elite has forced humanity's back
up against the wall.
That's the grace of the situation.
Because now we have the ability
to make an absolutely extraordinary leap in consciousness.
A very clear choice.
We've been operating by default for too long.
Well, on that note, thank you so much, Lucia,
for your time and for the number of years
you've spent doing this journey
so that you could reflect your words back to us.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you for the work you do,
for bringing this consciousness to people.
It's so beautiful.
Unplugging the Patriarchy is a story
based on Lucia's 40 years of mystical teachings
and practices.
You can pick up a copy at Amazon.com
and other major book sellers.
For more on the theme of the reemerging feminine,
you might also enjoy our interviews
with Dr. Christine Page.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(soft music)